Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Carbon Technology Manager,
David Wright.
Thank you.
Welcome to session 143,
high level Toolbox Carbon Enhancements 1.
So Carbon, Mac OS X,
the theme of this week.
We cannot wait to get your
applications onto Mac OS X.
There have already been a number of
sessions this week letting you know
about some of the-- in my session,
I called them closed roads and detours.
There will be a few more in this session.
But we're also adding a lot of
functionality to Carbon to make
your development lives easier.
Again, there have already been
sessions about that this week,
Carbon events being one of them.
And so I was thinking
about the title of this,
High Level Toolbox.
What does that mean, high level?
And I think another cool theme of
this week is that the high level
toolbox is beginning to do more and
more on behalf of your application,
thus making it even higher.
So anyway, to talk more about that,
I'd like to introduce Pete Gontier
from the high level toolbox team.
Please welcome Pete.
You've been hearing a
lot about Aqua this week.
And it's certainly the case that
the High Level Toolbox is enhancing,
growing and being enhanced
in order to make your jobs
easier in implementing Aqua.
But it's also
Growing and enhancing just because
it needs to grow and enhance in
order to stay a living thing.
So we've added lots of features,
some of which have to do with Aqua,
some of which don't,
and that's what we'll be
talking about in this session.
I want to approach this topic from
a couple of different directions.
The first one we're calling
architectural changes.
And the architectural changes have
to do with stuff that you pretty much
need to do in order to adopt Carbon,
in order to Carbonize your application.
And those things include such
things as the fact that window
layering is now enforced.
It's no longer optional.
You can't choose to use it or not.
You've pretty much got to live with it.
Root controls are always created
for any window that has controls.
MenuRef is now opaque,
which shouldn't be any surprise
to anybody who's been hearing
about Carbon all this time.
We've been creating more
opacity in the Toolbox.
But with respect to MenuRef,
it's a matter of some
interesting semantic changes
that have more to do with,
or have less to do with,
accessors and more to do
with your application code.
And the Scrap Manager needed
a change for Carbon,
and particularly for Mac OS X,
which means that CarbonLib
also had to change.
So we'll be talking a
little bit about that.
The second category of things
I want to talk about are the cool
new features we've been adding
that you aren't obligated to adopt,
but once you learn about them,
you'll realize you want to adopt them.
The first big category,
or the first big subcategory there,
is the Menu Manager.
We've been adding a lot of stuff
in recent versions of the OS to
Control Manager and Window Manager.
And Menu Manager has sort of
been a little bit neglected.
We've added a few
features here and there,
but in Carbon,
Menu Manager is really catching
up in terms of feature list.
We've also added a whole new
manager called the Help Tag Manager.
And this is basically the
replacement for Balloon Help,
and we'll be talking a
little bit about that.
We've added some new
control creation APIs.
They're more intuitive,
they make more sense,
you don't have to worry
about overridden parameters.
And there are some whole new
standard controls that we've added,
mostly to support Aqua,
but partly to support you.
I said something about
window layering earlier.
Window layering, of course,
is done according to class,
the way it always has been.
So when you create windows,
you need to be very conscious of
the class that you're creating,
because that will basically imply
the layer the window will fall into.
In addition to that,
we've also changed some existing
Window Manager APIs so that they
operate within the layer of the
window that you pass to those APIs.
So when you call
Select Window or Send Behind,
you'll find that the window is
only changed within its own layer.
So if you have a document window
and you pass it to Select Window,
it's not going to jump in front
of your floating palette windows.
It's just going to become the
frontmost document window.
The other API that's
changing is Front Window.
Well, excuse me, the API that's not
changing is Front Window,
and you have to watch out for that,
because when you call Front Window,
you will get the Front Window,
even if it's a floating palette,
irrespective of layer.
So if you need to be aware of
the Front Window of the layer,
you need to actually use the
specific call Get Front Window of
Class instead of Front Window.
In Mac OS X, because we need to plan for
future enhancements we want
to do to the Control Manager,
we pretty much need to
require that your windows,
which have any controls,
have root controls.
And basically what happens is when
you create your first control,
we check to see if there's already
a root control in that window.
And if there isn't,
then we create one for you.
I said just now that this
is a Mac OS X feature.
This might cause you
trouble if you're thinking,
"Oh, no, now I have to write
conditional code to figure out,
am I on Mac OS X?
Is there a root control?" Well,
the simple solution is,
as part of your Carbonization process,
Just add a call to create root control,
and always create a root control for
all of your windows that have controls.
It's a simple thing to do,
and it will simplify your
life in the long run.
You'll always have a root
control on 9 and on 10.
The one part of this is not
automatic is the root control
pretty much sticks around.
Once it's been created,
even if it's created automatically,
it doesn't go away just because
you deleted all the child controls.
Now this new mandatory root control has
some implications for the Dialog Manager.
Basically,
the moral equivalent of creating
a root control in a dialog is
setting the use control hierarchy
bit in your dialog resource,
in your DLGX resource, I should say.
But that bit really controls two things.
One, it ensures that you have a
control hierarchy in your dialog.
But the other thing is that it makes
all of your items into controls.
And once they've become controlled,
you need to be careful about how
you access your dialog items.
And specifically,
you need to be careful with
setDialogItemText because
it expects a control now.
And that's done because of compatibility.
setDialogItemText needs to search
all of the dialog item lists in
all the dialogs in your application
because the API is not defined so
as to allow us to do anything else.
So it needs to find that control
handle in the dialog item,
in the dialog that you care about,
and the only way it can do that
is by taking a control wrath.
Now, the really clean thing for you to do
is not do this tricky typecasting thing
to make set dialog item text work.
The cleaner thing to do is to just
use set control data and pass it
the tag for the text of the item.
And the last sort of
implication for dialogs and
the mandatory root control is,
um,
You basically want to set this bit
not only to make your life easier,
but also because it's the only
way you can get aqua-savvy
text in your edit text items.
So I mentioned menu refs are now opaque,
which should be no surprise.
But it's not just a matter of calling
some new accessor function instead of
directly accessing the menu record.
The way Get Menu used to work is that
it used to hand you back a resource
handle that came from a menu resource.
And it would post-process the
resource handle a little bit,
but pretty much it was a resource handle.
And if you called Get Menu over
and over and over again,
you'd get the same handle
over and over and over again.
That's no longer true.
Get Menu now returns you a menu ref
which is based on the menu resource,
so it's not as if you had to
throw out your menu resources.
But that is basically a unique copy
of that resource used as a template.
So not only can you not assume that
you've got a resource handle and
you'll get the same one every time,
but you should also,
instead of calling Release Resource,
which some documentation tells you to do,
not many people do it,
but that's what the
recommendation used to be.
Now we're telling you,
go ahead and call Dispose Menu,
forget about Release Resource because
the menu is not a resource.
So of course there are some
accessor functions as a
result of menu ref opacity.
One of them is called Duplicate
Menu and it replaces the ability you
used to have to use the memory manager,
say you might call hand to
hand to duplicate a menu.
Well you can't do that anymore because
menu refs aren't handles anymore.
And then of course Copy Menu Items
provides you with the functionality
you need to reach into a menu
and pull out specific items and
copy them into some other menu.
And of course you used to be able to
do that by simple pointer arithmetic,
or actually it was complicated
pointer arithmetic.
In any case we've given you an
API now so that you can reach
in and do that same stuff.
The Scrap Manager is,
I hesitate to say it's a new API,
pretty much what it is,
is an old API with a lot of
new names and a few changes.
Pretty much,
you still get things from the scrap,
you still put things on the scrap,
you still zero the scrap,
or as we say in the new terminology,
you clear the scrap.
Basically,
we had to make some changes to the
Scrap Manager in order to support
the way events work on Mac OS X.
On 9, your app would get a suspend event,
and if you were maintaining a
private scrap that the Scrap
Manager didn't know about yet,
you would take the suspend event as
your clue that it was time to export
your private scrap to the public scrap.
On 10, suspend events work
significantly differently.
By the time you've
received a suspend event,
it's very likely that your
application has already been
pushed towards the background
because of preemptive multitasking.
And so if you, at that point,
try to export your scrap,
it won't work because
background applications can't
put things on the scrap.
While we were in there
making these architectural
changes to the Scrap Manager,
we decided it was a good time
to add some features as well,
so we added flavor flags.
Flight reflects are pretty
much like the Drag Manager.
Let me step back for a moment.
I didn't explain the whole promise thing.
So to replace the suspend event process,
we added a promise feature,
which is much like the drag manager.
You basically supply a callback.
You associate it with a scrap.
And when some other application
requests the data that you promised,
you get called back and you
provide the data on the fly.
Now, when you make these
promises is pretty critical.
You want to make these promises
when the user performs a copy
operation or cut operation.
You don't have to supply
any data up front,
but you do have to say,
I have data of a certain type.
And you may optionally, if you know,
supply the size of the data as well,
but that's optional.
And the reason you want to do this at
this time is that there's really no
better time to do it because otherwise
you'll just be sitting in your event loop
waiting for an event to come in and by
the time you receive your suspend event,
it's too late.
So you really do need to do the
promising when the user issues a command.
So now let's go back to Flavor Flags.
Flavor Flags are also like,
work very similarly to the
Flavor Flags in Drag Manager.
You can specify a sender only flavor,
you can spec, excuse me,
and you can test for whether a
flavor that you are pulling in
from the scrap has been translated.
And,
The previous session we talked
about Translation Manager,
and that's what that bit
is intended to be used for.
We also added some
APIs for introspection.
You used to be able
to look in low memory,
grab the scrap handle out of low memory,
and then walk around inside the
scrap handle in order to determine
what flavors were on the scrap,
how big they were,
and maybe even peek at their data.
Now you need to use some clean
APIs that basically tell you all
the same things in a way that
we can support into the future.
So I said that the menu
manager was catching up.
And the menu manager is catching up
so much that we cannot cover all of
the things that have been added to
the menu manager in this session.
You see there's a long list there,
and we'll cover most of those things.
But the last item is almost the
most important one because there are
probably six or seven important things
that we just don't have time to cover.
And you can learn more by looking in the
headers and experimenting with the new
APIs and then maybe sending us feedback
to get the documentation finished sooner.
But that's a really important
part that I wish I could cover
but just don't have time for.
So before I go into too much
detail about the Menu Manager,
I want to bring out Guy Fullerton
to show us a demo of some
of these new capabilities.
Guy?
So it looks like all my
dark little obsessions are
coming out of the conference.
Let me steal the water.
So as Pete mentioned,
we've got an awful lot of new
features in the Menu Manager.
I'm only going to touch on a few of them,
but they're kind of the cooler ones.
Got a simple little application here.
I showed this off in
the Aqua Overview demo.
It takes advantage of a few of
the new Menu Manager features.
First one I want to touch on is
the inclusion of this font menu.
This font menu is actually
implemented by the system.
Your application can have any
given menu and it can call
an API to tell the system,
"Please put all the standard
font commands in this menu for
me." We even offer a mechanism,
it's actually an option bit
that Pete will talk about,
that lets us hang submenus off
of each of the fonts that has the
different types of fonts available.
So in this case,
Oh, I don't know.
Lucida has a bold and a regular version.
And those are both
automatically hung off the menu.
And the system will keep track of the
submenu management for you automatically.
We also provide some APIs that
allow you to take a given menu
selection and ask the menu manager,
"Hey, what kind of font was this?" So you
can take that font and run with it.
[Transcript missing]
You can put different menu manager
command IDs between each item so
that you can find out what the user
selected on a command ID basis.
The next thing I want to do is actually
show you how I implemented that.
It's actually really,
really straightforward.
The first step is done
just in your menu resource,
or if you're using Interface Builder,
you can do it straight
in the Nib resource.
This is the menu that did not have
any dynamic menu commands in it.
Your dynamic menu resource, or Nib,
looks basically the same.
In a dynamic menu, if you have one item
that has three variants,
there are really three menu
items behind that one item.
So your menu resource simply
has each of those three items.
I'll take the Amplify case, for instance.
Each of the items which is ultimately
going to show up as just one visible
item must have the same base command key,
but you can specify different modifiers.
So, for instance, the Amplify item itself
just has the command key,
Amplify All is Shift Command,
and Amplify Selection is Option Command.
So you build up your menu,
you save that off,
and then you need to do
one step in the code.
actually.
So it's a very small application,
uses Carbon events to
do most of the work.
And one of my subroutines is a routine
that just builds up my menu bar.
One thing I happen to do in
here that Pete will talk about
as well is get the root menu.
This is a really convenient way
to be able to get your menu bar,
treat it as a menu and iterate
through things in a quick easy way.
So I get my root menu and the first thing
I do is I pull the sixth menu out of
it which happens to be my dynamic menu.
There's a number of other ways I could
have done this but for speed I just knew
it was the sixth menu and grabbed it.
And then I happen to iterate
over each of the items in the
menu and change an attribute,
just turn on the dynamic
bit for that item.
And that's really all it takes
for the dynamic stuff to work.
As soon as you run, the menu manager just
does the rest of the work.
So, calling this API is a
little inconvenient,
and we're going to look at getting
that integrated directly into Interface
Builder so that Interface Builder
will let you click a checkbox and mark
an individual menu item as dynamic,
and it'll just do it all,
and you won't have to do any work.
You just build your menu and run it,
and it's all dynamic.
And so now, Pete,
I think he's going to talk a little
bit more about these APIs I've shown
you and some more stuff as well.
Great.
Thanks a lot, Guy.
So now we're going to talk about
some APIs as sort of a backgrounder
and we're going to build up
towards the exact APIs that
Guy showed just now in that demo.
The first ones that we're going to
talk about are the menu attribute APIs.
A set of menu attributes
is just a 32-bit quantity,
a bunch of flags, that
Control the behavior
of an individual menu.
Right now we define two attributes.
One of them is to
exclude the mark column.
The mark column, of course,
is that column down the left-hand side
of the menu with the check mark or the
diamond or whatever other symbol you need
to put in there to tell the user that a
certain mode is in effect or some item
has been selected as the current item.
Basically, the reason you would want
to exclude that column,
the best example we have
is the Path pop-up menu
that Windows supports now.
There's no reason to
mark any of those items,
and it's much nicer if the width
of the item is very close to the
width of the title in the window.
So we turn off the
Mark column for that menu.
And you may encounter situations
like that in your app as well.
The other bit that you can set in the
menu attributes is the auto-disable bit.
This bit basically, we hope,
replaces a lot of code in your
application in which you attempt
to determine whether all the
items in your menu are disabled.
If they are,
go ahead and disable the title.
Well, if you set this bit on a menu,
the menu manager will figure all that
out for you and disable the title
on the fly on an as-needed basis.
So there are a couple of
APIs for accessing these bits.
The first one is pretty simple.
You pass it the menu you care
about and it gives you back
the attributes for that menu.
The second one is a
little more interesting.
It has an idiom that we are
probably going to use a lot of
in the future for the toolbox.
And basically where you
would expect one parameter,
there are two.
And the first one is the attributes that
the menu manager is supposed to set.
And the second one is the attributes that
the menu manager is supposed to clear.
And this replaces the code in your
application where you would get the
attributes and then do some bitwise
operation on those attributes and
then set them back onto the menu.
And of course,
that's not nearly an atomic operation.
So since thread safety is the sort
of thing we try to consider when
we're designing new APIs for Carbon,
that's what this sort of dual
parameter strategy is all about.
Now of course there are
attributes for menu items as well,
and these are the attributes that
Guy was talking about when he
showed you how the dynamic menu
support is implemented in his app.
The first menu item attribute
is the disabled attribute.
Of course,
this is an attribute that's used by
disable menu item and enable menu item.
There's no sort of recommendation
that you use the attribute
version of this capability.
The old APIs work fine.
It's just that it's nice to have all
of these attributes in a single place.
The second attribute is
the dynamic attribute,
which Guy talked about.
You turn that on and you get
that dynamic menu support.
The third is
A hidden attribute allows you to
hide and show individual menu items
in a menu without deleting them.
They are still there,
but the menu manager simply
chooses not to display them.
We'll get to how that can be useful in
a very specific example in a few slides.
The last attribute is
the separator attribute.
And the separator attribute compensates
for the fact that we still have
one metacharacter in menu items,
and that is a leading hyphen.
And the leading hyphen, of course,
causes the item to become a separator
line instead of a chunk of text.
With this attribute,
you can turn that off and have a
leading hyphen in your menu items.
And this would be useful if you
don't want to know what kind of
data you're putting into the menu.
Say it comes from the file system
or it comes from a list of resources
or some database or something.
And you don't want to have to process,
does this thing have a hyphen in
it and do I need to do a special
hack in order to make it work?
You can just put text in the item
as long as that attribute is set,
you won't get items turning
into separators unintentionally.
Now, there are lots of other
menu item attributes,
probably as many as a half dozen more.
There are lots of other
menu item attributes,
probably as many as a half dozen more.
They're a little more obscure,
but they're worth looking
at if you have some time.
Take a look at them and see if
they apply to your application.
They're all commented.
The APIs are much like
the menu attribute APIs,
and of course, you specify a menu item,
but otherwise they're
pretty much the same.
So now let's talk about that
dynamic menu item attribute.
Guy explained a little bit of this,
but basically you create the same old
resources or you use Interface Builder
to create your menu and X menu resources.
And in your XMenu resources, of course,
you specify all the modifier
keys that you care about.
Basically,
what you do is you specify multiple
"redundant" items in your resources.
They're not redundant because obviously
they have different modifiers,
but they sort of look redundant.
They have the same base command
character associated with them.
That's how the menu manager
figures out which items to merge
and which items to leave alone.
And then once you've got your menus
instantiated in your application,
when you set the dynamic
attribute bit on the items,
that tells the menu manager, "Okay,
you should look to see if this
item should be merged with
another one above or below it."
And of course,
you saw only the current set of
modifier keys is displayed in the menu.
I guess I should also point
out the items that aren't
displayed are still in the menu.
So the menu manager knows to return
you the index of those items according
to which modifier keys are down.
So you don't have to worry about, well,
I should say, the menu manager tells you,
if you've got three items in a sequence
and they're dynamic menu items,
say they're items 4, 5, and 6,
if the user holds down the modifier
keys associated with item 5,
menu manager tells you that
the user selected item 5,
and you don't have to worry about
all the fact that menu manager
hides all those other ones for you.
So we did some work with
hierarchical menus as well.
A while back we added some functions to
allow you to get away from overloading
the semantics of existing APIs like
set item mark and set item command.
You used to have to pass all sorts of
goofy stuff according to all sorts of
rules that nobody wanted to remember
and everybody had to look up every time.
But in the latest release of Carbon,
we are also finally
eliminating pretty much,
I think, the last weird case of
overloaded parameters,
and that is insert menu and passing
negative 1 for the after ID.
You can now basically create a menu,
decide which item to make
it a hierarchical menu of,
and pass the menu handle to the
menu manager and let the menu
manager worry about the rest.
You don't have to worry
about what ID the menu has.
You don't have to worry about
doing something special.
You have a name that actually
does what it says it does.
And the only time that you really
have to worry about the menu ID is
if you don't take advantage of
the APIs on the following slide.
We've also had menu
command IDs for a while.
We had a sort of a sparse set of APIs,
but I think we are pretty much
rounding out the API set for
menu command IDs in Carbon.
The first interesting one
is enable menu command.
And what this does is if you associate
a 32-bit command ID with an item,
You can enable that item or
disable it according to its
command ID without worrying about
where it is in the menu hierarchy.
Basically,
this allows you to not be concerned about
searching or having a list of constants
in your application that relates command
IDs to items or anything like that.
And we've added a couple of
other APIs that allow you to
sort of query your existing menu
bar to figure out where command
IDs appear in your item hierarchy.
And this is going to be useful
for situations like when you have
your font menu and you want to
associate the same command with
all the items in your font menu.
Yet you still need to look up the text
of the item of the menu that was selected
because that's the font name and you need
that to obtain a font ID and use that.
Speaking of the font menu,
we've added some calls to
create a standard font menu.
And of course you saw the demo
where you had the option of
creating sort of an old style font
menu with just font names in it.
Or you can create a menu with font
names and their variants hanging
off the side as a hierarchical menu.
And of course you make that decision
by choosing whether to pass the
K-Hierarchical Font Menu option
flag to Create Standard Font Menu.
Some of the other interesting
parameters to this function are
the first hierarchical menu ID.
If you care about where your font variant
hierarchical menus start in the ID list,
this is where you can specify
where they should start.
You would use this if, say for example,
you had menus starting at 128, say,
and going to 150.
You're pretty sure you're not going to
use 50 more menus in this application,
so you could tell Menu Manager, "Okay,
start my font variant IDs at
200," and I'm pretty sure there
aren't going to be any collisions.
Let's see.
So yes,
and the other API will allow you to,
instead of getting the string out
of the menu and having to figure
out what that corresponds to,
just ask directly for the font family and
font style in font manager terms instead
of you having to do that yourself.
So one of the other standard font
menus that we're supporting in
Carbon is a standard Apple menu,
or on 10 you'd call it
the application menu.
You no longer need to call
append REST menu and pass
DRVR to build an Apple menu.
And you also obviously no longer
need to call Open Desk Accessory
because that's not supported,
so you better not need it.
Under CarbonLib,
we build the Apple menu and
we handle selections in it,
and pretty much it just works.
You don't have to worry about it.
You still need to worry
about your About item,
but other than that,
everything just works.
Under Mac OS X,
we still build the menu for you,
but we add a couple items
that you need to respond to,
one of which you're probably
already responding to.
Basically, the QUIT application,
pretty much everybody supports it.
If you don't support it,
you really can't even shut
down the Mac properly.
So, you're definitely already there.
You need to add a new
Apple Event Handler to handle the
Preferences event that will send your
application when the user selects
the Preferences item from the menu.
This is pretty easy because if
you have a Preferences dialog,
all you have to do is call the
existing code that brings up
that dialog and you're done.
If you don't have a preferences dialog,
it's perfectly reasonable for you to
pass the preferences command ID to
some of those APIs I mentioned earlier
to either hide the preferences menu
item or disable it as necessary.
And of course,
if your application is in a
state where it can't quit,
it's perfectly reasonable to disable
the quit menu item for a while.
And that sort of seems counterintuitive
because we built the menu,
but that's sort of also why we built
that whole command ID support into
the enable and disable mechanism,
because we knew that you were
going to run into that problem.
So go ahead and do that.
So, I'm about to explain these APIs and
you're going to be wondering at the end,
why did they add those APIs?
And then I'll tell you.
You can now clone menus.
And cloning really is just
terminology for reference counting.
So if you explicitly clone a menu,
you increment its reference count.
If you insert a menu into a menu bar,
that implicitly increments
that menu's reference count.
And if you delete a menu from a menu bar,
that implicitly decrements
the reference count.
And of course, when you dispose the menu,
the reference count,
hopefully if you've stayed
balanced all this time,
the The reference count goes to zero,
and the menu goes away.
Why would you need this?
Well, one use is:
The enhancements we've
made to Get Menu Bar.
Get Menu Bar still returns
the handle that you expect,
that weird packed array of strange stuff
that's kind of documented inside Mac 1,
I think.
You can still walk around in that handle
and extract information out of it,
but at the same time you want to
use some new APIs that we've added.
The Dispose Menu Bar will do the
right thing with all the menus
that happen to be in that Menu Bar.
Once you've gotten the Menu Bar and
all of those menu refs have their
reference count incremented,
and then you dispose the Menu Bar,
those menu refs will have their
reference count decremented.
Duplicate Menu Bar, of course,
will increment all the reference counts
of the menu refs in that Menu Bar so
that you can keep everything balanced.
The thing that you want to avoid
is that you want to have a menu
bar that's not a reference count.
The thing that you want to avoid
is passing a Menu Bar handle to a
Dispose handle because that obviously
won't give us the chance to do all
of that reference count maintenance.
Same goes for Hand-to-Hand.
Equally, it's a similar problem in that
Memory Manager has no idea that it
needs to do anything with menu refs.
Another way, though,
to access the Menu Bar is Get Root Menu.
And it returns to you what I think
of as sort of a virtual menu ref.
The Root Menu behaves as if it's a menu,
and you can pass it to
all the menu-- well,
yes, you can pass it to pretty much
all the menu manager APIs.
But the most important
ones are Count Menu Items,
which immediately tells you how many
items there are in the Menu Bar,
so you don't have to--
Declare your own data type and do tricky
things to get that simple information.
And the other thing it will do
is it will allow you to get the
menus that are in the menu bar,
their menu refs, really easily simply by
calling a new API instead of,
again,
walking around in that weird handle.
When you're done with the root menu,
you can just call dispose menu just
like you would with any other menu ref.
So what we're hoping is that if
you're in your code looking at
all that weird menu bar code,
Instead of changing it to use Dispose
Menu Bar or Duplicate Menu Bar,
which is perfectly acceptable to do,
we're hoping that you have the
alternative to simply rip that out,
use Get Root Menu and the
other menu manager APIs,
and then make your maintenance
life simpler over time.
So it's been 15 years.
15 years and we still didn't
add a way to set the menu title.
In Carbon, we finally did it.
So, the Help Tag Manager.
There's good news and bad news
about the Help Tag Manager.
The good news is it's the
replacement for Balloon Help.
The bad news is you have to give
up all of those alternate names for
balloon help you've made up to express
to the world what you think of it.
So the Help Tag Manager is, we think,
a big improvement on Balloon Help.
The first improvement is
that it's object oriented.
And what that means is you can associate
a Help Tag with a Toolbox object,
like a control or a
window or a menu item.
The second big improvement
is the human interface.
Instead of having those
big cartoony balloons,
what you've got is
small yellow rectangles,
just like you've seen for
I don't know how many years.
But what's great about ours is that
it has that slick aqua-translucence
that you see everywhere else.
The content is a little
different for Help Tags.
Basically what we're expecting Help Tags
to be used for is three or four words,
a phrase.
So suppose for example you had...
You had a button with
an icon with a label,
and the button was supposed
to send an email message.
The button might say, on the caption,
it might say "Send" because after all
it's in the context of an email message
window and so "Send" is pretty clear.
If the user for some reason needs
to know what the "Send" button does,
and hovered over that button waiting
for the balloon help to appear,
the balloon help might
have said something like,
Open a TCP/IP connection to
the SMTP server and squirt an
RFC 822 message over the link.
That's not what we expect in a Help Tag.
What we expect in a
Help Tag is something like,
"Send the current message."
Now, we've added facilities for
you to leverage your existing
Balloon Help content because
we know that's important.
But we think that as you
experiment with that,
you'll find that the content really
doesn't fit the Help Tag idiom.
It's sort of a stopgap measure.
You can get your help system back
up and running with Help Tags.
But the more you use it,
we think the more you'll be motivated
to rev your content over time.
So here are some of the APIs that
you use to specify Help Tag content.
I'll just talk about the first one.
You pass it a control ref,
and you pass it this new data
structure called HM Help Content Rack.
Basically, HM Help Content Rack is a data
structure that specifies an expanding
number of data types for your content.
By expanding, what I mean is we hope to
add lots of data types that
Help Tags support over time.
Right now, the one that absolutely works
flawlessly and the one that we fully
intend to keep forever is str255,
the standard Pascal string
that you're used to.
In the header, you may find other types,
but we recommend that you stick with
str255 for now because that's the
one that's going to stay around.
Some of the other interesting
fields in the HM Help Content Rack
are the tag display side,
and that of course is left, right,
bottom, top.
So you can specify where you
expect the tag to appear relative
to the object you've specified.
And then the other interesting
field is the hot rack field.
Now I said earlier that this
API is object oriented in the sense
that it talks to Toolbox objects.
And why would you need a hot rack that
could just ask the Toolbox object?
Well,
The relevant example is a window.
If you attach a Help Tag to a window,
you may have multiple hot-wrecked
areas within that window.
And we'll see why that's
relevant in a few seconds.
Well actually,
we'll see how you can customize
that in a few seconds.
It may be relevant even
if you don't customize.
For example,
if you've got a window up and you're not
using Control Manager for some reason,
I mean,
I'm in love with Control Manager and
I can't see why anyone would avoid it.
But,
Some people need to.
So if you're in that situation,
that's where the hot rack comes in.
So I mentioned customization.
These APIs are APIs you can use
to customize your help tags.
Basically, you use these APIs to
sort of do lazy content,
to provide lazy content.
You can do two main things.
You can decide, oh,
I don't want to use string A.
I want to use string B.
And that may have to do with
what state the window's in or
what state the control's in or
something along those lines.
The other thing you can do is specify
the hot rack on the fly so that
So for example,
if you've got the scenario
I mentioned with the window with
multiple possible hot racks,
if things are moving around,
you still want to inform
the Help Tag Manager when
to take down the Help Tag.
And so if you're in that situation,
you need to turn to
these customization APIs.
So I mentioned balloon
help compatibility,
and these are the APIs that you would
use to specify your existing balloon help
resources as Help Tag content resources.
And it does preserve your
investment in content,
but
It's really up to you to evaluate
whether you want to keep that content
for your Help Tag implementation or not.
It's really sort of the honor system,
and we hope you do the right thing.
I also mentioned some new control
functions that we've added.
We're going to be talking a
lot more about controls in the
second session for Carbon Toolbox
Enhancements tomorrow at 9 a.m.
I believe that's in A1, A2.
Well,
we'll find out later in the roadmap.
But basically,
we wanted to cover a couple
of things in this session.
It used to be when you wanted
to create a pop-up menu,
you would have to basically crack open
the documentation and read a short
paragraph on just about every parameter
to figure out what it really meant.
It wasn't really the control.
It wasn't really the refcon.
It was really something else.
So what we've done is for each control,
or each standard control, I should say,
we've added individual creation
functions so that you can pretty
much look at the prototype,
figure out the data you need to provide,
and provide it.
Instead.
of spending a half an hour every time
you need to create a pop-up button.
The other change we've made is
we've made these control creation
functions return OS status.
It used to be you'd call new control,
you'd get back a nil control ref,
and then it would just be a big
mystery as to why it failed.
Now that we return OS status,
you can at least maybe figure out, "Okay,
I need to do this other thing
instead," or maybe tell the user what
went wrong or something like that.
It's no longer just this big mystery.
I mentioned that we're going to have
some new standard controls in Mac OS X.
And in fact, in Carbon in general.
The first example is there
was a session this morning,
and I hope you saw it,
on the data browser control.
It's a really whizzy new
hierarchical list control.
It has excellent user experience.
It supports all sorts of
features basically for free.
You get drag and drop support.
You get the little
disclosure triangle support.
You get the column headers and the
movable columns and the whole nine yards.
Basically,
we're making finder level functionality
available to your application
with respect to list management.
Some of the other controls are
pretty cool in their own right,
but I've got to admit the
data browser is great.
The Relevance Indicator is a new
control that's basically the result of
the fact that the Progress Indicator
is very different in Aqua and it no
longer works as a relevance control.
So we've created a new control,
and for example this is used
by Sherlock to display search
results to tell you how relevant
each hit is to your search.
The round button is basically
intended as a navigational aid.
We expect you to use it for things
like back and forward and home.
The Disclosure button is something that
you will see in Navigation Services.
It's basically for expanding and
contracting dialogue windows.
If you have expert users who need
access to more settings than your
main customer base and you don't
want to burden your main customer
base with too many controls,
the Disclosure button is a way to
give your expert users the opportunity
they need to twiddle the settings
that they want to twiddle without
distracting your mainline customers.
And then of course, in Aqua we really,
really, really want you to use
the standard progress bar.
And the one barrier left to
that really was we didn't have
a vertical variant for it.
We really want you to get away from
drawing progress bars with Quick Draw.
It's never going to look good under Aqua.
So, if you've got a vertical
progress bar now,
now's the time.
So,
we've talked about things you have to do,
and we've talked about things
that you're going to want to do.
The things you have to do are:
you have to watch out for
mandatory window layers and
mandatory root controls.
And the window layering
shouldn't be too onerous,
but it is a little bit of work.
And as long as you understand it,
I think you'll be OK.
The root controls stuff is even easier
to deal with because all you really need
to know is be aware of it for debugging.
And for the most part,
you shouldn't have to make
too many changes because your
code will create controls,
and they'll become child
controls of the root control,
and everything will
pretty much work the same.
Watch out for get menu returning copies.
Don't assume that it always returns
the same handle over and over again.
Check out the Scrap Manager if
you have some private scrap code
where you export your private
scrap during a suspend event.
Look out for that.
Stuff to look forward to is
all the new Menu Manager APIs.
They basically enable
you to eliminate code,
support Aqua without too much effort,
and then
We'll keep working on them as well,
but we're pretty happy with them.
Help Tags is something that is basically
really the help system of the future.
It's basically the way balloon help
should have worked in the first place.
And we think you'll want
to check that out as well.
And then of course there are
some control manager improvements
that you'll want to keep in mind.
And again,
if you're interested in control manager,
the Carbon Toolbox Enhancement
Session 2 tomorrow morning
at 9:00 is the place to be.
So with that,
I'd like to bring out Dave Wright again,
and he'll wrap things up for us.
Thanks, Pete.
So just to take a look at where
to take feedback about this,
for Carbon APIs and ways that
the Toolbox could better help you
with your programming efforts,
please feel free to contact
me at david.wright@apple.com.
And for user interface type issues,
please contact our
User Experience Technology Manager,
John Galenzi, at galenzi@apple.com.
And for the roadmap, as you can see,
these Carbon Enhancement
sessions are very useful.
These are issues that are
going to affect you as you're
Carbonizing your applications.
So don't miss tomorrow's second
session about this stuff.
It's in A2 at 9:00.
I don't know about you,
but engineering at 9:00
AM is really early,
but it's really important,
so be sure to be there.
Also,
be sure to go to Navigation Services,
since that's the only standard
way to open and save files
in a Carbon application now.
And for feedback, again,
that you'd be sending to John,
please contact us at gmail.com.
Thank you.
And if you have any questions
about John during this conference,
please be sure to attend
the Aqua feedback forum,
because that's where user
interface type feedback should
go during this conference.
And again, for programmatic type stuff,
ways that the Toolbox could help you
get your Carbon application going faster
and better and concerns that you have,
please attend the feedback forum
for the high-level Toolbox.
So this time, I'd like to invite the
panelists to come up for Q&A,
and we'll move into that.